user-crypto/miv-rv32-key-agreement/README.md, before:

PolarFire User Crypto Key Agreement service
================================================================================
This example project demonstrates the use of the PolarFire User Crypto key 
agreement Services using the following functions

   - CALPreCompute()
   - CALExpo()
   
There are two different build configurations provided with this project which
configure this SoftConsole project for RISC-V IMC instruction extension. 
The following configurations are provided with the example:

  - miv-rv32-imc-debug
  - miv-rv32-imc-release

Mi-V Soft Processor
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This example uses Mi-V SoftProcessor MiV_RV32.The design is built for debugging
MiV_RV32 through the PolarFire FPGA programming JTAG port using a FlashPro5.
To achieve this the CoreJTAGDebug IP is used to connect to the JTAG port of the
MiV_RV32.

All the platform/design specific definitions such as peripheral base addresses,
system clock frequency etc. are included in fpga_design_config.h. The
fpga_design_config.h is located at the root folder of this project.

The Mi-V Soft Processor MiV_RV32 firmware projects needs the miv_rv32_hal and 
the hal firmware(RISC-V HAL).

The RISC-V HAL is available at GitHub [Mi-V-Soft-RISC-V](https://mi-v-ecosystem.github.io/redirects/platform).
    
How to use this example
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This example project is targeted at a MIV_RV32 design running on a PolarFire-Eval-Kit 
connected via a USB-UART serial cable to a host PC running a terminal emulator
such as TeraTerm or Putty configured as follows:

 - 115200 baud
 - 8 data bits
 - 1 stop bit
 - no parity
 - no flow control.

Run the example project using a debugger. A greeting message will appear over the 
UART terminal.This program displays the return shared secret key data from User
Crypto processor.

This example project demonstrates the use of User Cyrpto – key agreement service
to derive the shared secret key. It is primarily used as a method of exchanging
cryptography keys for use in symmetric encryption algorithms such as AES. This 
service reads the base value, modules, private key of user A, public key of user
B, and derive the secret key, which can be used for encryption/decryption of 
data and also displayed on the UART terminal.

fpga_design_config (formerly known as hw_config.h)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The SoftConsole project targeted for Mi-V processors now use an improved
directory structure. The fpga_design_config.h must be stored as shown below

`
    <project-root>/boards/<board-name>/fpga_design_config/fpga_design_config.h
`

Currently, this file must be hand crafted when using the Mi-V Soft Processor.
In future, all the design and soft IP configurations will be automatically
generated from the Libero design description data.

You can use the sample file provided with MIV_RV32 HAL as an example. Rename it
from sample_fpga_design_config.h to fpga_design_config.h and then customize it
per your hardware design such as SYS_CLK_FREQ, peripheral BASE addresses,
interrupt numbers, definition of MSCC_STDIO_UART_BASE_ADDR if you want a
CoreUARTapb mapped to STDIO, etc.

### Configurations

The CAL library needs a config_user.h containing the configuration data.
This application provides following settings as per CAL requirement   
  1. A variable which provides the base address of the User Crypto hardware block
     is defined in main.c
     
     `uint32_t g_user_crypto_base_addr = 0x62000000UL;`
     
  2. A symbol INC_STDINT_H is defined in project preprocessor setting. 
     For more detail, please refer to caltypes.h file present in CAL folder.

**NOTE**: 
1. There is no direct function to calculate shared secret using Diffie-Hellman
   key agreement algorithm.
2. You must enter all input data as whole bytes. If you enter the 128-bit key
   {1230...0} as 0x12 0x3 and press return, this will be treated as
   byte0 = 0x12, byte1 = 0x30, byte2-127 = 0x00.
       
### Test script

A test script is provided with this example which automatically enters the NIST
vectors and associated data to verify the functionality. You can use 
RV32_Key_agreement.ttl Tera Term Macro script present in project directory for 
testing key agreement example project.

**NOTE:**
1. Tera Term Macros don’t work with Windows 10 build 14393.0. You should update
   to Windows 10 build 14393.0.105 or [later.](https://osdn.net/ticket/browse.php?group_id=1412&tid=36526) 
2. Before running Tera Term Macro script, set language as English 
   (Setup->General->Language). Also setup transmit delay in (Setup->Serial port)
   to 5msec/char and 5msec/line.
3. By default, Tera Term log will be stored in Tera Term installation Directory.

## Target hardware

This project was tested on PolarFire-Eval-Kit with CFG4 configuration of the
MIV_RV32 design available [here](https://github.com/Mi-V-Soft-RISC-V/PolarFire-Eval-Kit/tree/main/Libero_Projects)

All the design specific definitions such as peripheral base addresses, system
clock frequency etc. are included in fpga_design_config.h. 

The firmware projects needs the HAL and the MIV_RV32 HAL firmware components.

This example project can be used with another design using a different hardware
configurations. This can be achieved by overwriting the content of this example
project's "fpga_design_config.h" file with the correct data per your Libero design.

### Booting the system

Currently the example project is configured to use FlashPro debugger to execute 
from LSRAM in both Debug and Release mode.

In the release mode build configuration, following setting is used
`--change-section-lma *-0x80000000` under
Tool Settings > Cross RISCV GNU Create Flash Image > General > Other flags. 

This will allow you to attach the release mode executable as the memory 
initialization client in Libero when you want to execute it from non-volatile memory. 

## Silicon revision dependencies

This example is tested on PolarFire MPF300TS device.

### CAL library src
 
To obtain the CAL source code and a SoftConsole project to generate the CAL
library archive file (*.a) refer [SoftConsole Documentation](https://mi-v-ecosystem.github.io/SoftConsole-Documentation/SoftConsole-v2021.3/using_softconsole/other.html#crypto-application-library).
The CAL source code is bound by license agreement and it will be available as
part of the SoftConsole installation if the CAL specific license was agreed
while installing it.

Commit message:

Squashed 'applications/' changes from b27957b..840a440
840a440 Merged user-crypto source code version 2.1.100.
02f8a51 Squashed 'user-crypto/' changes from 9b8af09..415d929

git-subtree-dir: applications
git-subtree-split: 840a440b1697acb44b1e6269d3c846030c484374

user-crypto/miv-rv32-key-agreement/README.md, after:


# PolarFire User Crypto Key Agreement Service

This example project demonstrates the use of the PolarFire User Crypto key 
agreement Services using the following functions

   - CALPreCompute()
   - CALExpo()
   
There are two different build configurations provided with this project which
configure this SoftConsole project for RISC-V IMC instruction extension. 
The following configurations are provided with the example:

  - miv-rv32-imc-debug
  - miv-rv32-imc-release

## Mi-V Soft Processor

This example uses Mi-V SoftProcessor MIV_RV32.The design is built for debugging
MIV_RV32 through the PolarFire FPGA programming JTAG port using a FlashPro5.
To achieve this the CoreJTAGDebug IP is used to connect to the JTAG port of the
MIV_RV32.

All the platform/design specific definitions such as peripheral base addresses,
system clock frequency etc. are included in fpga_design_config.h.

The Mi-V Soft Processor MIV_RV32 firmware projects needs the MIV_RV32 HAL and 
the hal firmware(RISC-V HAL).

The hal is available at GitHub [Mi-V-Soft-RISC-V](https://mi-v-ecosystem.github.io/redirects/platform).
    
## How to use this example

This example project is targeted at a MIV_RV32 design running on a PolarFire-Eval-Kit 
connected via a USB-UART serial cable to a host PC running a terminal emulator
such as TeraTerm or Putty configured as follows:

 - 115200 baud
 - 8 data bits
 - 1 stop bit
 - no parity
 - no flow control.

Run the example project using a debugger. A greeting message will appear over the 
UART terminal followed by a menu system and instructions.

This example project demonstrates the use of User Cyrpto – key agreement service
to derive the shared secret key. It is primarily used as a method of exchanging
cryptography keys for use in symmetric encryption algorithms such as AES. This 
service reads the base value, modules, private key of user A, public key of user
B, and derive the secret key, which can be used for encryption/decryption of 
data and also displayed on the UART terminal.

## fpga_design_config (formerly known as hw_config.h)

The SoftConsole project targeted for Mi-V processors now use an improved
directory structure. The fpga_design_config.h must be stored as shown below

`
    <project-root>/boards/<board-name>/fpga_design_config/fpga_design_config.h
`

Currently, this file must be hand crafted when using the Mi-V Soft Processor.
In future, all the design and soft IP configurations will be automatically
generated from the Libero design description data.

You can use the sample file provided with miv_rv32_hal as an example. Rename it
from sample_fpga_design_config.h to fpga_design_config.h and then customize it
per your hardware design such as SYS_CLK_FREQ, peripheral BASE addresses,
interrupt numbers, definition of MSCC_STDIO_UART_BASE_ADDR if you want a
CoreUARTapb mapped to STDIO, etc.

### Configurations

The CAL library needs a config_user.h containing the configuration data.

This application provides following settings as per CAL requirement   
  1. A variable which provides the base address of the User Crypto hardware block
     is defined in main.c
     
     `uint32_t g_user_crypto_base_addr = 0x62000000UL;`
     
  2. A symbol INC_STDINT_H is defined in project preprocessor setting. 
     For more detail, please refer to caltypes.h file present in CAL folder.

**NOTE**: 
1. There is no direct function to calculate shared secret using Diffie-Hellman
   key agreement algorithm.
2. You must enter all input data as whole bytes. If you enter the 128-bit key
   {1230...0} as 0x12 0x3 and press return, this will be treated as
   byte0 = 0x12, byte1 = 0x30, byte2-127 = 0x00.
       
### Test Script

A test script is provided with this example which automatically enters the NIST
vectors and associated data to verify the functionality. You can use 
Key_Agreement.ttl Tera Term Macro script present in project directory for 
testing key agreement example project.

**NOTE:**
1. Tera Term Macros don’t work with Windows 10 build 14393.0. You should update
   to Windows 10 build 14393.0.105 or [later.](https://osdn.net/ticket/browse.php?group_id=1412&tid=36526) 
2. Before running Tera Term Macro script, set language as English 
   (Setup->General->Language). Also setup transmit delay in (Setup->Serial port)
   to 5msec/char and 5msec/line.
3. By default, Tera Term log will be stored in Tera Term installation Directory.

## Target Hardware

This project is tested on PolarFire-Eval-Kit with CFG4 configuration of the
MIV_RV32 base design available at github [Mi-V-Soft-RISC-V](https://mi-v-ecosystem.github.io/redirects/repo-polarfire-evaluation-kit-mi-v-sample-fpga-designs)

All the design specific definitions such as peripheral base addresses, system
clock frequency etc. are included in fpga_design_config.h. 

The firmware projects needs the HAL and the MIV_RV32 HAL firmware components.

This example project can be used with another design using a different hardware
configurations. This can be achieved by overwriting the content of this example
project's "fpga_design_config.h" file with the correct data per your Libero design.

### Booting the System

Currently the example project is configured to use FlashPro debugger to execute 
from LSRAM in both Debug and Release mode.

In the release mode build configuration, following setting is used
`--change-section-lma *-0x80000000` under
Tool Settings > Cross RISCV GNU Create Flash Image > General > Other flags. 

This will allow you to attach the release mode executable as the memory 
initialization client in Libero when you want to execute it from non-volatile memory. 

## Silicon Revision Dependencies

This example is tested on PolarFire MPF300TS device.

### CAL Library Src

The CAL source code is bound by license agreement. If you need access to the CAL
source code, please contact FPGA_marketing@microchip.com for further details on
NDA requirements.
