============================================================================================
This folder contains a TCL script that builds MIV_RV32IMA PF System Services Libero design.
============================================================================================

Libero version: v2021.1

Notable Changes:
- All cores have been updated to the most recent versions, including: MIV_RV32IMA, CoreJTAGDebug and ...SYSTEM_SERVICES core.
- The CORESYSSERVICES_PF component has been replaced with PF_SYSTEM_SERVICES (CORESYSSERVICES_PF no longer supported in latest Libero versions).
- The Flash Freeze input SW control is not supported in PF_SYSTEM_SERVICES core. Switches have been uncostraint, please refer to data sheet.


How to use:
The project has been scripted in TCL. Two arguments can be passed in with Libero.

1. Open Libero v2021.1 and press 'CTRL + U'
2. Select the .tcl file - 'MIV_RV32IMA_PF_System_Services.tcl'
3. Pass in the argument 'CFG1' by entering it in the 'arguments' field to build the standard design
4. (OPTIONAL) A second argument can be entered following the first by a space.
   The second argument can take the user further in the design flow.
   Arguments: SYNTHESIZE, PLACE_AND_ROUTE, GENERATE_BITSTREAM, EXPORT_PROGRAMMING_FILE
		e.g. CFG1 SYNTHESIZE or CFG1 GENERATE_BITSTREAM
5. Press 'OK' and Libero will execute the script and create the project - 'MIV_RV32IMA_PF_Sys_Serv'
6. (OPTIONAL) A programming file that was previously generated by the design has been included './programming_file/MIV_RV32IMA_PF_System_Services_RISCV_TOP.job'

