miv-rv32-coretse-packet_tx_rx/README.md, before:

# CoreTSE receive and transmit packet application

This example project demonstrates the use of CoreTSE driver APIs implementing a
transmit and receive packet application.

There are 2 different build configurations provided with this project which
configure this SoftConsole project for RISC-V IMC instruction extension.
The Following configurations are provided with the example.

- miv-rv32-imc-debug
- miv-rv32-imc-release

## How to use this example

- Connect the board to a DHCP capable switch or network.
- Connect via the board's USB-UART serial cable to a host PC running a terminal
  emulator such as TeraTerm or PuTTY configured as follows:
   - 115200 baud
   - 8 data bits
   - 1 stop bit
   - no parity
   - no flow control
- Run the example project using a debugger. A greeting message will appear over
  the UART terminal followed by a menu system and instructions.

The software will auto-negotiate an Ethernet link with the network's switch.
The terminal emulator command line interface will display (through UART) the
status of the link, transmit packet success and receive packet size.

## fpga_design_config (formerly known as hw_config.h)

The SoftConsole project targeted for Mi-V processors now use an improved directory
structure.
The `fpga_design_config.h` must be stored as shown below:

`<project-root>/boards/<board-name>/fpga_design_config/fpga_design_config.h`

Currently, this file must be hand crafted when using the Mi-V Soft Processor.
In future, all the design and soft IP configurations will be automatically generated
from the Libero design description data.

You can use the sample file provided with MIV_RV32 HAL as an example.
Rename it from `sample_fpga_design_config.h` to `fpga_design_config.h` and then customize
it per your hardware design such as `SYS_CLK_FREQ`, peripheral BASE addresses, interrupt
umbers, definition of `MSCC_STDIO_UART_BASE_ADDR` if you want a CoreUARTapb mapped
to STDIO, etc.

## Target hardware

This project has been tested on the following boards with the MIV_RV32 IMC Core:

- PolarFire Evaluation Kit (MPF300-EVAL-KIT)
- Arrow Electronics Everest Board (MPF300T)
  
Both the PolarFire Evaluation Kit and the Everest Board use Microchip's VSC8575 PHY.
The driver for this PHY can be found in the CoreTSE driver directory, `src/platform/drivers/fpga_ip/CoreTSE`.

## Modifying this example to target other boards or interfaces

Refer to the `src/application/config.h` to configure a the project to target a different
board.
The macro definitions in this file will set the correct PHY driver and clock configuration
settings based on the selected board.

The `main.c` file can be used to further modify the CoreTSE configuration for new
boards.
The following code in that file configures the MAC:

``` {c}
    TSE_cfg_struct_def_init(&g_tse_config);

    g_tse_config.phy_addr = 0;
    g_tse_config.speed_duplex_select = TSE_ANEG_ALL_SPEEDS;
    g_tse_config.mac_addr[0] = mac_address[0];
    g_tse_config.mac_addr[1] = mac_address[1];
    g_tse_config.mac_addr[2] = mac_address[2];
    g_tse_config.mac_addr[3] = mac_address[3];
    g_tse_config.mac_addr[4] = mac_address[4];
    g_tse_config.mac_addr[5] = mac_address[5];
    g_tse_config.framefilter = TSE_FC_PROMISCOUS_MODE_MASK;
```

You only need to modify these files to use a different PHY or force the link to
use a specific speed.

## Silicon revision dependencies

This example is tested on PolarFire Evaluation Kit (MPF300-EVAL-KIT).

Commit message:

Squashed 'driver-examples/CoreTSE/' changes from 11779ae..e33594d
e33594d Add info about hardware design

git-subtree-dir: driver-examples/CoreTSE
git-subtree-split: e33594d5a9d2d8580d3297a1b123d2b5a321fab5

miv-rv32-coretse-packet_tx_rx/README.md, after:

# CoreTSE receive and transmit packet application

This example project demonstrates the use of CoreTSE driver APIs implementing a
transmit and receive packet application.

There are two different build configurations provided with this project which
configure this SoftConsole project for RISC-V IMC instruction extension.
The following configurations are provided with the example.

- miv-rv32-imc-debug
- miv-rv32-imc-release

## How to use this example

- Connect the board to a DHCP capable switch or network.
- Connect via the board's USB-UART serial cable to a host PC running a terminal
  emulator such as TeraTerm or PuTTY configured as follows:
   - 115200 baud
   - 8 data bits
   - 1 stop bit
   - no parity
   - no flow control
- Run the example project using a debugger. A greeting message will appear over
  the UART terminal followed by a menu system and instructions.

The software will auto-negotiate an Ethernet link with the network's switch.
The terminal emulator command line interface will display (through UART) the
status of the link, transmit packet success and receive packet size.

## fpga_design_config (formerly known as hw_config.h)

The SoftConsole project targeted for Mi-V processors now use an improved directory
structure.
The `fpga_design_config.h` must be stored as shown below:

`<project-root>/boards/<board-name>/fpga_design_config/fpga_design_config.h`

Currently, this file must be hand crafted when using the Mi-V Soft Processor.
In future, all the design and soft IP configurations will be automatically generated
from the Libero design description data.

You can use the sample file provided with MIV_RV32 HAL as an example.
Rename it from `sample_fpga_design_config.h` to `fpga_design_config.h` and then customize
it per your hardware design such as `SYS_CLK_FREQ`, peripheral BASE addresses, interrupt
umbers, definition of `MSCC_STDIO_UART_BASE_ADDR` if you want a CoreUARTapb mapped
to STDIO, etc.

## Target hardware

This project has been tested on the following board with the MIV_RV32 IMC Core:

- PolarFire Evaluation Kit (MPF300-EVAL-KIT)
  
The PolarFire Evaluation Kit uses Microchip's VSC8575 PHY.
The driver for this PHY can be found in the CoreTSE driver directory, `src/platform/drivers/fpga_ip/CoreTSE`.

This project uses a custom hardware design that can be found in the
[Application Note: AN4569][1].

[1]: https://www.microchip.com/en-us/application-notes/an4569

## Modifying this example to target other boards or interfaces

Refer to the `src/application/config.h` to configure a the project to target a different
board.
The macro definitions in this file will set the correct PHY driver and clock configuration
settings based on the selected board.

The `main.c` file can be used to further modify the CoreTSE configuration for new
boards.
The following code in that file configures the MAC:

``` {c}
    TSE_cfg_struct_def_init(&g_tse_config);

    g_tse_config.phy_addr = 0;
    g_tse_config.speed_duplex_select = TSE_ANEG_ALL_SPEEDS;
    g_tse_config.mac_addr[0] = mac_address[0];
    g_tse_config.mac_addr[1] = mac_address[1];
    g_tse_config.mac_addr[2] = mac_address[2];
    g_tse_config.mac_addr[3] = mac_address[3];
    g_tse_config.mac_addr[4] = mac_address[4];
    g_tse_config.mac_addr[5] = mac_address[5];
    g_tse_config.framefilter = TSE_FC_PROMISCOUS_MODE_MASK;
```

You only need to modify these files to use a different PHY or force the link to
use a specific speed.

## Silicon revision dependencies

This example is tested on PolarFire Evaluation Kit (MPF300-EVAL-KIT).
